---
layout: post
title: "First!"
date: 2012-04-29
---
This is my first blog entry, so I'd like to welcome you to my blog on tobiha.de and thank you for reading! Don't forget to follow me on [Facebook][facebook] and [Twitter][twitter]! This blog is all going to be about my app development projects in general. But my biggest ambitions are in game development, so you're going to read about that a lot here! My first project on tobiha.de is [Spectrum Run][spectrum-run]. So what is it all about? When is the release? Which platforms are going to be supported? These questions and more will be answered or at least I'm trying to answer them in this post, so read along! :smile:

---

## What is Spectrum Run?
Spectrum Run is a fast-paced action-arcade game for iOS. I've always wanted to make a game, which challenges your reaction time. You have to jump, dive and slide through gates, and pick the right color, before you hit the gates. It's all packed in a challenging way with leaderboards, achievements and some other cool community features! When time is right, I'll post some screenshots.

## Who is behind Spectrum Run?
Principally I'm all behind Spectrum Run. Unfortunately I'm not a good graphic artist, but my sister Katharina is. So it was an obvious choice to let her do all the graphics, which involve animations and need to look great and vivid. I'm so proud to have such a talented sister! :smile: I'm still not sure how I'm going to handle the music and sounds, but I think I'm going for that challenge and do them on my own.

## When did the development start? When is the release?
Development started not too long ago in March 19th, 2012. I still have no exact date for release, but my goal is by fall at the latest. Development is running extremly well, coding is about 80% done, now it's time for a lot of organisational stuff and building up all necessary resources.

## Which platforms are going to be supported?
I'll be focusing on iOS first, especially iPhone and iPod touch with iOS 4 or higher and full retina support. iPad will be natively supported after an update, it's just not possible for me to do it all in the beginning. If the game is well received, I'll consider an Android port, but this won't happen until next year.

## How do you develop? What frameworks are you using?
Obviously I'm using Xcode, there is no other way to develop iOS apps. The most important frameworks I'm using are [cocos2d][cocos2d] and [Box2D][box2d]. Huge props to them, check them out! I would've lost so much time without these frameworks, that's beyond ridiculous!

---

That's about it for the start! I hope I can share more information and media in the next post. Stay tuned! If you have more questions, please leave them in the comments! :smile:

[facebook]: https://facebook.com/{{ site.facebook_username }} "Facebook"
[twitter]: https://twitter.com/{{ site.twitter_username }} "Twitter"
[spectrum-run]: http://spectrumrun.com/ "Spectrum Run"
[cocos2d]: http://www.cocos2d-iphone.org/ "cocos2d"
[box2d]: http://box2d.org/ "Box2D"
